I took inspiration from the Finance problem set that we did. I used Finance to help me with my naming conventions
for all of my files and folders. I also looked at the headers that finance used to help me import some things
that I thought would be useful, such as many of the headers/things to be imported in app.py The one feature that I took directly from Finance was the helper function login_required for the pages that could be accessed once a user was created. I found that particularly helpful.

I also had a layout.html page. I found a template on bootstrap to use for my navigation bar. I chose the one I used specifically because it had drop down bars, and I thought that would help with the organization of my page since a lot of my items were related to one another, such as journal and entries and all of the habits. I followed Finance to see how I could rearrange the page. For instance, I took the if logged in and else logic from Finance to display the appropriate tabs that could be accessed if a user was logged in versus if they were not.

Going back to app.py, I based my first three functions off of Finance, which were the register, log in, and log out functions. When I was making register, I made a table in SQL which included an id value that would be incremeneted automatically, the user's first name that they inputted (different from the credentials needed for Finance), the user's chosen username, and their chosen password that would be hashed with a hash function that was imported. I also had an option for them to input a confirmation password as well when registering, but I did not make a section in this table for this confirmation password because it was simply used for confirmation. After the user registered successfully, they would be directed to the log in page. To log in, they would need to type in the correct username and password. Finally, to jump ahead, once logged in, the log out function would clear the session and then take the user back to the log in page. The HTML pages of all these were similar to what was done in Finance.

I then made my index/home page. First, in my style.css, I created an ID consisting of the background I wanted to use (an image I found) called index-background. My HTML page for index called for this ID then. This HTML page was a welcome message with a placeholder where the user's name that they used to sign up with. In app.py, I retrieved the logged in user's id, which I used to help me retrieve the name of the individual. I then rendered the template with their name.

From there, I began making the journal page. This is the page that users would use to create and submit their journal entries. I first made a SQL table called journal, which had the id of the journal entry, the user's ID, the journal entry itself, and the date that it was submitted. In my HTML file for this page called journal.html, I had a form which I enlarged by adding rows and columns to as the space for the user to type into. I also had a button that the user could press to submit their entry. If their entry was blank, they would receive an error message asking them to input something because it wouldn't make sense to have a blank entry. I then inserted the user's id, the entry, and the date that modified to be the user's local time into the table journal. I got this modifier from the duck, and I applied it to the rest of the times where I had to insert a date. The user's id is important in this element and in all other tables I made because it idenitifies what belongs with who so people don't see one another's entries. After inserting this information into the table, I redirected the user back to a page called Entries where they could view all of the entries that they made.

Entries.html then is one of the other pages I have that is related to journaling. It displays all of the entries a user made. I used the HTML in Finance to help me with the appearance of the table. I then created headers for the table column's, including the entry and the date. In app.py, I got a list which included the dictionaries of the entries and the date. I then parsed through these dictionaries and selected the approrpriate values using a for loop in my HTML.

The next category of items are the habits. I was initially planning on letting the user create their own habits to track, but because not all habits are measured in time (ex. water intake, steps) and some are "intangible" (ex. mood), it would be difficult to account for these, and asking there are only so many habits that can be tracked in the form of time. That's why I thought it would be most practical for me to generate habits for the user to track themselves, including sleep, exercise, and screen time.

For sleep, I checked if the value was a whole number in app.py. I then made sure the amount was reasonable for a given day (between 0 and 24) before inserting that value, the user's id number, and the corrected date into a new table I made called sleep, which also attached an id value to each entry and recorded the date of each entry. I then redirected the user to the habits page where they could see this being displayed.

I repeated this idea for exercise and screen time. However, both exercise and screen time also recorded a minute value in addition to an hour value. I also had tables made for both exercise and scren time, recording an id number, the user's id, the number of hours, the number of minutes, and the date. These pages also redirected the user to the habits page upon submitting their recordings.

The habits page displays all of the habits that have been recorded in various tables. I've sectioned them off, so there is a table displaying the information specifically for sleep, one for exercise, and one for screen time. These tables work when I select the list of dictionaries and use the for loop to select a specific dictionary, similar to what was done for the entries page. In addition to these tables that display the amount of time spent on these habits and the date that they were logged, I also display the average amount of time they spend on each habit based on what they have logged. Then, I print out a message using conditionals based on that average so they can make an effort to improve their current habits or continue their progress. I also have another conditional checking if there is an average to calculate or not. If there is no data, there's no average, so a message will pop up indicating this.

There is also an affirmations page, where new affirmations will pop up after refreshing the page. I initially wanted to have them change by day, but I thought that would be too many affirmations, and I wasn't entirely sure how I could just extract the day from the date. I did this my importing random into app.py so I could generate numbers randomly. I then called the function to do this, selecting a number between one and five inclusive. Then, based on the number that was selected, I ran this through affirmations.html and printed out a different affirmation.

Finally, I had a page where the user could change their password. The HTML for this was modeled off of the login/register pages. I made sure the user had to type their password in twice. If they didn't match, an apology message would be returned, but if they did match, the hashed password would replace the user's previous password.

For the apology page, I created this as an html page that would be rendered for various error, such as not inserting a valid number or incorrect usernames/passwords when logging in. I had a simple error message and a message that specified what exactly was wrong using a placeholder.

To style everything, I modified my CSS with classes and IDs. I primarily used IDs for things that would only be used once, such as backgrounds, and I used classes for items I wanted to modify multiple times. I also changed the inherent style of some items, such as headers, text, and buttons.
